examples/nested/README.md, before:

# Nested Example

This examples illustrates how multiple packages can be contribute to the same
model. This makes it possible for multiple teams to collaborate on the same
overall software architecture model while maintaining only the section
relevant to them.

The example also illustrates how styles may be shared between multiple models
by defining them in a shared Go package.

The nesting is done simply by leveraging the Go `import` facility: the model
being generated imports the packages that defines the nested models. The
parent model can refer to elements defined in the child models by using the
functions exposed on the corresponding element structs:

* The `Person` and `SoftwareSystem` workspace methods return a person or
  software system element given their name.
* The `Container` software system method returns a container given its name.
* The `Component` container method returns a component given its name.
* The `DeploymentNode` workspace method returns a deployment node given its
  name, the `Child` deployment node method returns a child deployment node
  given its name.
* The `InfrastructureNode` deployment node method returns an infrastructure
  node given its name.
* The `ContainerInstance` deployment node method returns a container instance
  given a reference to the container being instantiated (or its name) and the
  corresponding instance ID (1 if there is only one instance of the container
  in the deployment node).

When used that way the `Workspace` expression defined in imported models gets
overridden by the one defined in the package being generated.

## Running

Using the `stz` command line:

```bash
stz gen goa.design/model/examples/nested/model
```

This generates the file `model.json` that contains the JSON representation of
the workspace.  This file can be used to upload the workspace, again using stz:

```bash
stz put model.json -workspace XXX -key YYY -secret ZZZ
```

Commit message:

This commit includes necessary breaking changes.
The DSL as originally designed made it necessary to use variables in
many cases to refer to elements in views when the elements were not in
the view scope. The DSL also could create subtle issues where names
would not resolve to the intended element in some cases (again forcing
the use of variables).
This change introduces a few changes to make scoping unambiguous.
The commit also fixes potential race conditions in how elements were
added to or removed from views. Generation is now done in two passes to
guarantees elements are added and removed in the appropriate order
independently from the order they appear in the DSL.
The commit also includes changes to the interface between Structurizr
and the output of the DSL which results in a cleaner model.
Structurizr specific constructs and business logic is now entirely
encapsulated in the `stz` package.

List of breaking changes in the DSL:

* Workspace -> Design
* Remove is now replaced with Remove, RemoveTagged and Unlink.
* DSL functions such as Add, Link, Remove and Unlink that accept
  element names now also accept element paths. The path of an
  element is built by concatenating the top level scopes with the
  element name separated with slashes
  (e.g. "<Software System/<Container>/<Component>")
* Views now require a key.

examples/nested/README.md, after:

# Nested Example

This examples illustrates how multiple packages can be contribute to the same
design. This makes it possible for multiple teams to collaborate on the same
overall software architecture while maintaining only the section relevant to
them.

The example also illustrates how styles may be shared between multiple
designs by defining them in a shared Go package.

The nesting is done simply by leveraging Go `import`: the design being
generated imports the packages that defines the nested designs. The parent
design can refer to elements defined in the child designs by using the
functions exposed on the corresponding element structs:

* The `Person` and `SoftwareSystem` workspace methods return a person or
  software system element given their name.
* The `Container` software system method returns a container given its name.
* The `Component` container method returns a component given its name.
* The `DeploymentNode` workspace method returns a deployment node given its
  name, the `Child` deployment node method returns a child deployment node
  given its name.
* The `InfrastructureNode` deployment node method returns an infrastructure
  node given its name.
* The `ContainerInstance` deployment node method returns a container instance
  given a reference to the container being instantiated (or its name) and the
  corresponding instance ID (1 if there is only one instance of the container
  in the deployment node).

When used that way the `Design` expression defined in imported models gets
overridden by the one defined in the package being generated.

## Running

Using the `stz` command line:

```bash
stz gen goa.design/model/examples/nested/model
```

This generates the file `model.json` that contains the JSON representation
of the design. This file can be uploaded to a Structurizr workspace, again
using `stz`:

```bash
stz put model.json -id XXX -key YYY -secret ZZZ
```
